[DOCS] Doc steps to exporting and importing cases (#1199)
elastic/security-docs: docs/cases/cases-overview.asciidoc

  
[role="screenshot"]
image::images/cases-open-vis.png[Shows where the Open Visualization option is]

[float]
[[cases-export-import]]
== Export and import cases

Cases can be <<cases-export, exported>> and <<cases-import, imported>> as saved objects through the Kibana {kibana-ref}/managing-saved-objects.html[Saved Objects] UI.

> IMPORTANT: Before importing a Lens visualization into a space, ensure the visualization's data is present. Without it, the Lens visualization won't work.

Reviewer: Yeah, we also might want to mention that alerts are in the same situation.

> IMPORTANT: Before importing Lens visualizations, Timelines, or alerts  into a space, ensure their data is present. Without it, they won't work after being imported.

Reviewer: I think there might be a double space between `alerts` and `into a space`.

Author: Ah yes, there is. Good catch, thanks!

[float]
[[cases-export]]
=== Export a case

> Use the export option to move cases between different Kibana instances. When you export a case, the case details, user actions, and comments are exported to a newline-delimited JSON (NDJSON) file. During the export process, text string comments, case alerts, and lens visualizations are exported.

Reviewer 2: The last two sentences have two separate lists that both say what's included when you export a case (and "comments" appear twice). Could we combine these lists somehow?
```suggestion
Use the export option to move cases between different Kibana instances. When you export a case, the following data is exported to a newline-delimited JSON (NDJSON) file: case details, user actions, text string comments, case alerts, and lens visualizations.
```

> Exporting cases can help you back up your cases or move them from one space to another. When you export a case, the case details, user actions, and comments are exported to a delimited JSON (ndjson) file. During the export process, text string comments, case alerts, and lens visualizations are exported.

Reviewer 3: I think instead of backup (my mistake 🙂 for that) it is better to say `you can move objects between different Kibana instances` as stated here: https://security-docs_1199.docs-preview.app.elstc.co/guide/en/kibana/master/managing-saved-objects.html#managing-saved-objects-export-objects

> 

Reviewer 4: I would go with "to a newline-delimited JSON (NDJSON) file", instead of "to a delimited JSON (ndjson) file)"

> NOTE: Exported alerts will only contain indices' names, the alert document ID, and the ID and name of the rule that triggered the alert. Lens visualizations are exported as JSON blobs.

Reviewer: I could go either way on this but we might just want to say that exported alerts only contain the necessary metadata for the case to reference the alert instead of the entire alert contents instead of outlining each field that is exported.

Author: I can see your point and agree with it @jonathan-buttner. Great suggestion!

To export a case:

. Open the main menu, click *Stack Management -> Kibana* and then select the *Saved Objects* tab.

> . Search for the case by choosing a saved object type or by entering the case title in the search bar.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
. Search for the case by choosing a saved object type or entering the case title in the search bar.
```

> . Select one or more case and click the *Export* button.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Select one or more cases and click the *Export* button.
```

> . Click *Export*. A toast message verifying that your file is downloading displays.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
. Click *Export*. A confirmation message that your file is downloading displays.
```

+

> TIP: Keep the *Include related objects* option enabled to ensure connectors are also exported.

Reviewer: Actually user actions and comments are always exported because we do that manually (since they're inbound references). The `Include related objects` only controls outbound references.

> TIP: Keep the *Include related objects* option enabled to ensure connectors are also exported.

Author: @cnasikas @jonathan-buttner would you mind elaborating on what outbound references for cases and or connectors are?

> TIP: Keep the *Include related objects* option enabled to ensure connectors are also exported.

Reviewer: Yeah sure. I think you can leave the tip as you've written it but I'll explain what inbound and outbound references are:

Saved objects can reference other saved objects by design and the `Include related objects` controls whether those referenced saved objects are included in the export. It only applies for references coming from the originating saved object though. So for example let's say you're exporting a case called "Jon's Case", behind the scenes that's actually composed of multiple saved objects but the originating saved object is called a "case" (there are also, user actions, comments, and some others).

If a connector is configured for a case, the case saved object will have a reference to a connector saved object. This is called an outbound reference from the case saved object (and an inbound reference for the connector saved object). The user action and comment saved objects have references to the case they are associated but the reference isn't stored in the case saved object it's stored in the user action and comment themselves.

When the `Include related objects` toggle is enabled the saved object management functionality examines the originating saved object and also exports all the references that are explicitly defined (aka the outbound references). For cases the only outbound reference is the connector. Within cases we extended that functionality so that when a case is exported we also grab the inbound references so that we export the entire case (the case, user actions, comments, etc).

> TIP: Keep the *Include related objects* option enabled to ensure connectors are also exported.

Author: Thanks for this @jonathan-buttner! I left the note as it was since inbound references are always exported during the export process.

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/cases-export-button.png[Shows the export saved objects workflow]

[float]
[[cases-import]]
=== Import a case

To import a case:

. Open the main menu, then click *Stack Management -> Kibana -> Saved Objects*.
. Click *Import*.

> . Select the delimited JSON (ndjson) file containing the exported case and configure the import options.

Reviewer 4: Instead of "delimited JSON", I would either say "Newline Delimited JSON" or just "ndjson" / "NDJSON"

. Click *Import*.
. Review the import log and click *Done*.
+

> IMPORTANT: If you've imported a case with a connector, you'll be prompted to re-authenticate the connector. To get to your connector, open the main menu, then go to *Stack Management -> Alerts and Insights -> Rules and Connectors -> Connectors*.

Reviewer: You can also get there by clicking the `Go to connectors` button after the import:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/56361221/142671927-591666bd-3a6d-4b81-bdb3-67c95a78e3b6.png)

> IMPORTANT: If you've imported a case with a connector, you'll be prompted to re-authenticate the connector. To get to your connector, open the main menu, then click *Stack Management -> Alerts and Insights -> Rules and Connectors -> Connectors*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
IMPORTANT: If you've imported a case with a connector, you'll be prompted to re-authenticate the connector. To get to your connector, open the main menu, then go to *Stack Management -> Alerts and Insights -> Rules and Connectors -> Connectors*.
```

> IMPORTANT: If you've imported a case with a connector, you'll be prompted to re-authenticate the connector. To do so, click the *Go to connectors* button on the *Import saved objects* flyout and complete the necessary steps to re-authenticate the connector. Another way to access connectors is to open the main menu, and then go to *Stack Management -> Alerts and Insights -> Rules and Connectors -> Connectors*.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
IMPORTANT: If you imported a case with a connector, you'll be prompted to re-authenticate the connector. To do so, click the *Go to connectors* button on the *Import saved objects* flyout and complete the necessary steps to re-authenticate the connector. Another way to access connectors is to open the main menu, then go to *Stack Management -> Alerts and Insights -> Rules and Connectors -> Connectors*.
```
